# TransactEase _(Every Bankers Trusted Software)_
**Aryan Arora (2219549)** <br>

**Project Scope:** 

* Features of the selected project
    * Create new customers / clients: Users will be able to use the software to open new accounts for new customers or clients with a form that will require all necessary information needed about the customer to open a bank account. The information will be used and stored in the database.
    * Add and modify customer details: Users will be able to make changes to any information to the account of customers which will also be saved and reflected in the database.
    * Balance checking: The software allows bankers to access customer information which involves all account information, account balances and any transactions as well.
    * Deposit Money: The user will be able to use the software to add to customer balance with the deposit money function after the customer hands over the amount of money to the banker in the form of cash.
    * Withdraw Money: The user will be able to check customer balances and perform withdrawals by deducting the amount from their balance and providing the customer with cash.
    * Electronic Transfer Money (ETF): The user will be able to take requests by customers to transfer money to different accounts given the account number of the customer who they are trying to transfer to.
    * Generate Statement of Accounts: The user will be able to generate account statements with transactions, running balances and other details for the customer. 
    * Export Banking Transactions (Daily, Weekly, Monthly, Yearly, or Custom): Users will be able to handle custom transactions and filter the results by different formats and time frames. This will allow customers to get a more specific view of their account upon request.
    * Store account information (personal details, account balances, etc): Users will be able to access and store information about customers both while creating an account and after creation as well. These details will include all information about the customer’s account and personal information as well.
    * Store banking transaction (inbound and outbound transfers, deposits, and withdrawals): The user will be able to store customer transactions such as all money coming in and all money going out of the account. Along with this, the user will be able to store amounts debited, credited and interest accumulated as well.
    * Printer connectivity: The user will be able to use the software’s printer connection feature to be able to connect to a printer and print hard copies of all the mentioned documents and reports above that can be generated by the software user.
* End users
    * Clerk: A clerk is an employee of a bank who is responsible for performing various administrative and clerical tasks related to banking operations. These tasks may include processing customer transactions such as deposits and withdrawals, opening and closing accounts, verifying customer information, and answering customer inquiries.
    * Branch Manager: A branch bank manager is an employee of a bank who is responsible for managing the operations of a specific bank branch. They oversee the daily operations of the branch, including managing staff, ensuring customer satisfaction, and maintaining compliance with banking regulations. 
    * Account Manager: An account manager is a professional who is responsible for managing the relationship between a company and its clients or customers. They act as a primary point of contact for clients and are responsible for maintaining positive relationships with them. 
    * Customer Support: Customer support is responsible for assisting bank customers with their inquiries, complaints, and issues related to banking products and services. They serve as a primary point of contact for customers who need help with account management, transactions, loans, credit cards, and other financial services.
* Integration of the End users with the project (user stories)
    * End Users mentioned above will be able to use the specified features of the project such as managing account information, transactions, collecting information, and performing banking operations.
* Areas covered with this project
    * Account management: The banking system will offer implementing banks with user-friendly management features, including the ability to create accounts, update information, deposit and withdraw funds, and generate  reports and statements.
    * Transactions: The banking system will enable implementing banks to efficiently display, sort, and export transactions as Statement of Accounts.
    * Banking Operations: The banking system will provide implementing banks with basic banking functionalities, such as depositing, withdrawing, and transferring money.
    * Networking and Data Storage: The banking system will allow implementing banks to securely store data in a remote database.
    * Connectivity: The banking system will provide implementing banks with the ability to connect to a local printer to print reports.

**Project Users:** 

TransactEase will benefit both bankers and their customers respectively for a faster more efficient management system that will streamline the banking operations with a simple and secure method of managing accounts, providing customers with support and details, and closing transaction requests. The software will also allow clerks and other bank employees to easily access customer accounts and provide them with detailed information such as bank balance, statements and even make use of printer connectivity to print and provide the information to its customers. 

**Project Actuator:**

The project entails the creation of TransactEase, a software programme intended to simplify financial operations. The programme has a number of capabilities, including the capacity to establish and change client accounts, check account balances, deposit and withdraw cash, transfer funds, produce account statements, and store account data and transactional information. Users may print tangible copies of created papers and reports using the software's printer connectivity capability. TransactEase has a number of actuators, which are tools or mechanisms that allow the programme to carry out actual physical activities, to carry out these duties. A few of these actuators are forms for entering and updating client account information as well as printers for printing hard copies of reports and other documents. 

The software's capacity to access and store data in a database, compute account balances and interest, and enable electronic financial transfers are some of its other features. These actuators work together to allow TransactEase to offer a smooth and effective banking experience to both consumers and bankers.

**Project Vendors:**

TransactEase is an open-source banking system provided by Aryan Arora. Aryan is a  postgraduate student from Vanier College taking up an Attestation of Collegial Studies diploma in Software Development: Secure Desktop, Mobile and Web Applications Attestation. Aryan plans to incorporate and patent the idea of TransactEase and mass offer it to banks that are interested in improving their operations and efficiency. The company wants to be much like NCR that provides technical, software and hardware solutions for businesses. Aside from TransactEase, the company plans to expand in creating software for many industries and sectors.

**Project Actors:**

Numerous participants in the TransactEase project take on various responsibilities in the creation and deployment of the software. The project team, which consists of software engineers, designers, and testers, is the primary actor. They are in charge of planning and creating the software, making sure it complies with the requirements, and testing it to make sure it performs as intended. The organization or customer for which the programme is being created is the second actor. The customer ensures that the software complies with their operational requirements by providing the project team with the requirements and specifications for the programme. The end-user, which comprises bankers and consumers who will utilize the software to conduct financial operations, is the third actor. 

The end users' input on the software's functioning and usability can assist to enhance the user experience. Stakeholders with a stake in the project's success, such as investors, regulators, and auditors, are examples of additional players. These parties work together to make sure the TransactEase project is successful and satisfies the interests of all parties involved.

**Project Properties:**

* C# : Programming language that was developed by Microsoft in the early 2000s. It is an object-oriented language that is similar in syntax and structure to Java and C++. C# is primarily used to develop Windows desktop applications, video games, and enterprise software.
* .NET Framework : Software framework that was developed by Microsoft for building and running applications on the Windows operating system.
* MongoDB (Database) : Document-oriented NoSQL (not only SQL) database that was developed by MongoDB Inc. It is a free and open-source database that stores data in flexible, JSON-like documents, which makes it a good fit for many modern applications that need to store and retrieve large amounts of unstructured data.
* System.Drawing : Library that provides a range of graphical functions and classes for working with images, graphics, and printing in C#. It includes a number of namespaces, including System.Drawing.Imaging, System.Drawing.Printing, and System.Drawing.Drawing2D.

**Plan Details:**

<table>
  <tr>
   <td>Project Task
   </td>
   <td>Proposed Deadline
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Create the software as a console app and test all functionalities</td>
   <td>
      May 29, 2023
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
Implement object oriented programming and design patterns to create an efficient skeleton app
   </td>
   <td>
      June 3, 2023
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
Connect MongoDB database to the application
   </td>
   <td>
      June 5, 2023
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
Test CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) functionalities and make sure all functionalities of the application are working accordingly
   </td>
   <td>
      June 8, 2023
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
Create GUI (Graphical User Interface) for the application for ease of access and use for end users
   </td>
   <td>
      June 19, 2023
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
Implement printer functionality to allow users to print reports
   </td>
   <td>
      June 23, 2023
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
Project Presentation
   </td>
   <td>
      July 3, 2023
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>
